README.md, before:

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/126175546.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/126175546)
# Santander MetGroup Paper Notebooks


There is a growing concern among the scientific community about the lack of reproducibility of many research outcomes (see for instance the dedicated [Nature Special Issue](https://www.nature.com/collections/wjsrmrdnsm)). In the specific case of Earth and Environment Science, a majority of papers were mostly (over two-thirds) not reproducible ([Baker, 2016](https://www.nature.com/news/1-500-scientists-lift-the-lid-on-reproducibility-1.19970)).

With this regard, the main objective of this repository is to maintain a number of notebooks reproducing the analyses and figures presented in several [journal papers by the Santander Meteorology Group](http://www.meteo.unican.es/en/view/publications), with an special emphasis in those describing or exploiting the functionalities of the [climate4R framework](http://www.meteo.unican.es/climate4R). The purpose of these notebooks is twofold:

 1. To ease **research reproducibility** and scrutiny by the scientific community
 2. To aid users in the application of the `climate4R` tools and related software though the provision of **worked examples** representing real research problems.

An overview of the notebooks so far included and the corresponding published articles is next provided:

| notebook  | Article Title | Journal | DOI  	
|---|---|---|---
| 2018_visualizeR_EMS | An R package to visualize and communicate uncertainty in seasonal climate prediction | Environmental Modelling and Software | https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2017.09.008
| 2018_ECOMS-UDG_ClimateServices | The ECOMS User Data Gateway: Towards seasonal forecast data provision and research reproducibility in the era of Climate Services | Climate Services | http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cliser.2017.07.001
| 2018_fireDanger_ClimateServices | Seasonal predictions of Fire Weather Index: Paving the way for their operational applicability in Mediterranean Europe | Climate Services | http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cliser.2017.04.001
| 2018_climate4R_example | The R-based climate4R open framework for reproducible climate data access and post-processing | Environmental Modelling and Software | https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2018.09.009
| 2018_drought4R_NCOMMS | Exacerbated fires in Mediterranean Europe due to anthropogenic warming projected with non-stationary climate-fire models | Nature Communications | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-018-06358-z
| 2018_metaclip_EMS* | METACLIP: A semantic provenance framework for climate products | Environmental Modelling and Software | https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2019.07.005
| 2019_Iberia01_ESSD* | Iberia01: A new gridded dataset of daily precipitation and temperatures over Iberia | Earth System Science Data Discuss. | https://doi.org/10.5194/essd-11-1947-2019 
| 2019_BNWeatherGen_WRR | Multisite Weather Generators using Bayesian Networks: An illustrative case study for precipitation occurrence | Water Resources Research. | https://doi.org/10.1029/2019WR026416
| 2019_downscaleR_GMD* | Statistical downscaling with downscaleR: Contribution to the VALUE intercomparison experiment | Geoscientific Model Development | https://doi.org/10.5194/gmd-13-1711-2020
| 2020_Lamb_ClimDyn* | Improved atmospheric circulation over Europe by the new generation of CMIP6 Earth System Models | Climate Dynamics | *submitted*

An overview of the notebooks used in courses and workshops:

| notebook  | Institution | Course/Workshop | Session  	
|---|---|---|---
| 2019_climate4R_SU.8.1_A | University of Cantabria | [SU.8.1 Adaptecca scenarios: Use of regional climate change scenarios for impact and adaptation studies](https://web.unican.es/cursosdeveranoyextension/cursos-de-verano/curso?c=2861) | Tools for accessing and processing climate data: Case study with R

***
**NOTE**: The `climate4R` packages are being actively developed. Thus, the notebooks often indicate the installation of the package versions that were used at the moment of compiling them. Alternatively, there is usually a Session Information section at the end of each notebook with details on the package versions used to compile. As a result, example code may fail if run with different versions. If you experience problems while running some of the examples, **please ensure that you are using the appropriate package versions**. If the problem persists, just let us know by dropping a ticket in the Issues section of this repo. Thank you!

***

Commit message:

Script for the C3S CORDEX grand ensemble

README.md, after:

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/126175546.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/126175546)
# Santander MetGroup Paper Notebooks


There is a growing concern among the scientific community about the lack of reproducibility of many research outcomes (see for instance the dedicated [Nature Special Issue](https://www.nature.com/collections/wjsrmrdnsm)). In the specific case of Earth and Environment Science, a majority of papers were mostly (over two-thirds) not reproducible ([Baker, 2016](https://www.nature.com/news/1-500-scientists-lift-the-lid-on-reproducibility-1.19970)).

With this regard, the main objective of this repository is to maintain a number of notebooks reproducing the analyses and figures presented in several [journal papers by the Santander Meteorology Group](http://www.meteo.unican.es/en/view/publications), with an special emphasis in those describing or exploiting the functionalities of the [climate4R framework](http://www.meteo.unican.es/climate4R). The purpose of these notebooks is twofold:

 1. To ease **research reproducibility** and scrutiny by the scientific community
 2. To aid users in the application of the `climate4R` tools and related software though the provision of **worked examples** representing real research problems.

An overview of the notebooks so far included and the corresponding published articles is next provided:

| notebook  | Article Title | Journal | DOI  	
|---|---|---|---
| 2018_visualizeR_EMS | An R package to visualize and communicate uncertainty in seasonal climate prediction | Environmental Modelling and Software | https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2017.09.008
| 2018_ECOMS-UDG_ClimateServices | The ECOMS User Data Gateway: Towards seasonal forecast data provision and research reproducibility in the era of Climate Services | Climate Services | http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cliser.2017.07.001
| 2018_fireDanger_ClimateServices | Seasonal predictions of Fire Weather Index: Paving the way for their operational applicability in Mediterranean Europe | Climate Services | http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cliser.2017.04.001
| 2018_climate4R_example | The R-based climate4R open framework for reproducible climate data access and post-processing | Environmental Modelling and Software | https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2018.09.009
| 2018_drought4R_NCOMMS | Exacerbated fires in Mediterranean Europe due to anthropogenic warming projected with non-stationary climate-fire models | Nature Communications | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-018-06358-z
| 2018_metaclip_EMS* | METACLIP: A semantic provenance framework for climate products | Environmental Modelling and Software | https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2019.07.005
| 2019_Iberia01_ESSD* | Iberia01: A new gridded dataset of daily precipitation and temperatures over Iberia | Earth System Science Data Discuss. | https://doi.org/10.5194/essd-11-1947-2019 
| 2019_BNWeatherGen_WRR | Multisite Weather Generators using Bayesian Networks: An illustrative case study for precipitation occurrence | Water Resources Research. | https://doi.org/10.1029/2019WR026416
| 2019_downscaleR_GMD* | Statistical downscaling with downscaleR: Contribution to the VALUE intercomparison experiment | Geoscientific Model Development | https://doi.org/10.5194/gmd-13-1711-2020
| 2020_Lamb_ClimDyn* | Improved atmospheric circulation over Europe by the new generation of CMIP6 Earth System Models | Climate Dynamics | *submitted*
| 2022_GMD_CORDEX_grand* | The worldwide C3S CORDEX grand ensemble: A major contribution to assess regional climate chnage in the IPCC AR6 Atlas | Geoscientific Model Development | *submitted*

An overview of the notebooks used in courses and workshops:

| notebook  | Institution | Course/Workshop | Session  	
|---|---|---|---
| 2019_climate4R_SU.8.1_A | University of Cantabria | [SU.8.1 Adaptecca scenarios: Use of regional climate change scenarios for impact and adaptation studies](https://web.unican.es/cursosdeveranoyextension/cursos-de-verano/curso?c=2861) | Tools for accessing and processing climate data: Case study with R

***
**NOTE**: The `climate4R` packages are being actively developed. Thus, the notebooks often indicate the installation of the package versions that were used at the moment of compiling them. Alternatively, there is usually a Session Information section at the end of each notebook with details on the package versions used to compile. As a result, example code may fail if run with different versions. If you experience problems while running some of the examples, **please ensure that you are using the appropriate package versions**. If the problem persists, just let us know by dropping a ticket in the Issues section of this repo. Thank you!

***
